

        PRTG Network Monitor is agentless network monitor software. It can be used to monitor bandwidth usage, uptime and collect statistics from various hosts, including routers, switches, servers, and more. 


    It works with an autodiscovery mode to scan areas of a network and create a device list. Once this list is created, it can gather further information from the detected devices using protocols such as ICMP, SNMP, WMI, NetFlow, and more. Devices can also communicate with the tool via a REST API. The software runs entirely from an AJAX-based website, but there is a desktop application available for Windows, Linux, and macOS. 



            --Discovery/Footprinting/Enumeration

    It can typically be found on common web ports such as 80, 443, or 8080. It is possible to change the web interface port in the Setup section when logged in as an admin.

    EyeWitness lists the default credentials prtgadmin:prtgadmin. They are typically pre-filled on the login page, and we often find them unchanged. Vulnerability scanners such as Nessus also have plugins that detect the presence of PRTG.


    $ curl -s http://10.129.201.50:8080/index.htm -A "Mozilla/5.0 (compatible;  MSIE 7.01; Windows NT 5.0)" | grep version



            ---Leveraging Known Vulnerabilities
    
     CVE-2018-9276  

     https://www.codewatch.org/blog/?p=453


      When creating a new notification, the Parameter field is passed directly into a PowerShell script without any type of input sanitization.

      To begin, mouse over Setup in the top right and then the Account Settings menu and finally click on Notifications.Next, click on Add new notification.

    Give the notification a name and scroll down and tick the box next to EXECUTE PROGRAM. Under Program File, select Demo exe notification - outfile.ps1 from the drop-down. Finally, in the parameter field, enter a command. For our purposes, we will add a new local admin user by entering test.txt;net user prtgadm1 Pwn3d_by_PRTG! /add;net localgroup administrators prtgadm1 /add. During an actual assessment, we may want to do something that does not change the system, such as getting a reverse shell or connection to our favorite C2. Finally, click the Save button.


    After clicking Save, we will be redirected to the Notifications page and see our new notification named pwn in the list.

    Now, we could have scheduled the notification to run (and execute our command) at a later time when setting it up. This could prove handy as a persistence mechanism during a long-term engagement and is worth taking note of. Schedules can be modified in the account settings menu if we want to set it up to run at a specific time every day to get our connection back or something of that nature. At this point, all that is left is to click the Test button to run our notification and execute the command to add a local admin user. After clicking Test we will get a pop-up that says EXE notification is queued up. If we receive any sort of error message here, we can go back and double-check the notification settings.

    $ sudo crackmapexec smb 10.129.201.50 -u prtgadm1 -p Pwn3d_by_PRTG! 
    
    We could also try to RDP to the box, access over WinRM, or use a tool such as evil-winrm or something from the impacket toolkit such as wmiexec.py or psexec.py.

    